SHELL NEWS:     1995

Shell News:  since this is our first interview with you as President and Chief Executive Officer, why don't we begin by asking how you would describe yourself and the contribution you want to make as you lead Shell Oil Company on into the 1990s?

Phil Carroll: I am someone who is open to new ideas and eager to continue learning I am also someone who has always been proud to say I'm with Shell, and I do indeed feel fortunate to have the opportunity to make a contribution in my new role. I aspire for Shell to achieve excellence in everything it does, in all of our businesses. If we are to be successful, I believe we must focus constantly on three key elements: the customer, the employee, and the shareholder. From time to time the spotlight falls more on one of these elements than the others, but you can't really separate them and all three are vital. Without loyal and satisfied customers, you're not going to have a business.  In order to satisfy the customer's needs, you must create conditions that allow and encourage all Shell people to contribute their best. Surrounding everything is an awareness and responsiveness to society' and the communities in which we live and work. All these elements in turn allow you to create shareholder value and he successful as a corporation.

SN: Can you tell us your views about what is occurring in Shell?

PC: There's a lot happening in Shell right now. A lot of change is occurring We are concentrating hard on improving the overall performance of the Company, and we are making good progress.

SN: Can you describe the performance improvement actions we have taken to date?

PC: Our performance improvement actions fall into three categories. One is to achieve excellence in operating performance. The second is to look at our asset base objectively and restructure and reposition our assets to achieve better performance. The third is to invest selectively in projects and businesses to improve near-term performance and position ourselves for the future. We have to do all three of those things rather than look to any one of them as being the solution.

SN: Could you provide some details on our operating performance?

PC: We have done a lot to bring our cost structure in line. We have to ensure that we are at or very near the top level of performance in all areas in which we want to compete. That's true for our E&P business, it's true for our Refining and Marketing business, and it also is true for Chemical. In addition to achieving an excellent cost structure, we have to make the most of our physical assets whether it's oil fields, refineries, chemical plants, or transportation and distribution facilities. The units in our manufacturing locations have to be up and running and producing the kinds of products the market wants. Our oil and gas wells must he on production in a cost-effective way. We have made a lot of progress in the last couple of years in achieving a much higher level of operational efficiency and effectiveness, and we're going to make a lot more.

SN: What about asset restructuring? What has been our progress in this area?

PC: In terms of asset restructuring, a lot has also been accomplished in the last two years. We have substantially revamped our refining system, shutting down the Wilmington refinery and selling a portion of it to Unocal. We're in a joint venture with Pemex in our Deer Park Refinery. Those two elements of restructuring position us very well to compete in the oil products business.

In gasoline marketing, we continue to exit those markets where we think the possibilities of our being competitive and profitable are less. We are building up our market position in areas such as South Florida and Houston where we see the market as being attractive in the long term.

In E&P, we have also been aggressively pursuing a policy of trying to sell non-strategic fields or very mature fields when we think we can get more out of those assets by sale than by continued operation. As everyone knows, we also sold off our interest in Shell Mining Coin-pany, although we retained an equity interest in the company that purchased it.
So, there has been a lot moving on the front of restructuring assets. We have to continue that process. If there are areas of our Company where we can achieve a greater value through sale or disposition, we will certainly consider that option.

SN: How are we doing in the area of investment?

PC: With the combination of the cost improvements and restructuring, we have been able to retain our financial strength and maintain a strong investment program. In all three of our major businesses, we have significant investment opportunities that are profitable and sufficiently robust that they can be attractive investments even in today's harsh climate.

While we have had to refocus and contract our domestic exploration activity, the success we have enjoyed in the deepwater Gulf offers us outstanding investment opportunities for the future. That is where a larger amount of our exploration and production investment will be devoted. In addition we still see attractive opportunities internationally.

In Refining and Marketing, in addition to the restructuring efforts I mentioned, we are going forward with major new investments, not only at Deer Park, hut also with a major project at Martinez. It is our intention to ensure that the Shell refining system throughout the United States is fully competitive and as good as the very best of our competitors.

New investments in Chemical will primarily be focused on acquiring or increasing our participation in advantaged businesses, particularly those that tend to be a bit more downstream from tile basic chemical businesses. We need to have a healthy portfolio of chemical businesses that are resistant to the natural swings of the commodity chemical cycle. This is important to give us some cushion in times of overcapacity and tight margins in commodity chemicals.

That three-pronged course is what we have been pursuing for the past few years and it is my intention to continue with it.

SN: You recently visited several locations.  Can you tell us what you saw and give us your impressions of the performance improvement efforts that were brought to your attention?

PC: Yes. The most encouraging and exciting thing that I saw was a high degree of involvement of people trying to improve our operations. This is not a process where management thinks up the answers and then asks people to execute. In every one of the locations I visited, from the control room to the oil field to the office, I found people actively implementing their own ideas and making real operation improvements. Clearly we must do a better job of capitalizing on the energy and creativity of people throughout Shell.

SN: How are these efforts paying off?

PC: The results have been gratifying in that the first half of 1993 showed substantial improvement in the operating performance of all three businesses, and better financial results than we saw in either 1991 or 1992. While I'm encouraged and grateful to everyone who helped get the improvements we saw in the first six months of the year, we still have a lot more to do in order to get back to a level of financial performance that meets our strategic objectives. Presently, earnings are less than a third of what they ought to be given the asset base with which we're entrusted.

SN: Do you plan any changes to the overall objectives of Shell Oil Company?

PC: Achieving a net return on investment of at least 12 percent continues to be the underlying objective and first priority of the corporation. Also, we remain committed to achieving highly competitive earnings and leadership in health, safety and the environment.

SN: Another objective in the 80s was growth. What is your view on growth today, and how does it relate to the 12 percent ROI target?

PC: Growth is still a desirable objective over the long term, but the truth is there is no point in growing a business until you have restored an acceptable return on investments already made. When we get back to an acceptable level of ROI --and we will-- then once again growing the business will be consistent with the objective of maximizing shareholder value.

SN: Do you see the relationship with the Royal Dutch Shell Group changing?

PC: Yes, I see it continuing to evolve. We clearly benefit from the Group's extraordinary financial and technological strengths. Sharing of technology within the Group has been and continues to be a strong plus for Shell Oil. With increasing globalization of some of our businesses, cooperative activities with other Group companies can lead to competitive advantage.

SN: What's next? What other things are planned for the future to continue Shell's forward movement?

PC: We recognize that we have to keep the focus on improving shareholder returns. We have a good plan, sound strategies, and we're off to a good start. We recognize the need for more flexibility, faster reaction time, and more willingness to change in response to external conditions. The challenge is to build on this foundation while aggressively pursuing further opportunities. The key for us now is to involve employees more effectively throughout Shell in the conduct of our business. I believe we need an environment where employees understand the business plan, possess the required skills and capabilities, have an opportunity to contribute, and are committed to excellence.

SN: What do you need to create that sort of environment?

PC: There are two things that, in very general terms are required. First is a mechanism of alignment so that the efforts of everyone can be amplified by the complementary efforts of other employees. We accomplish much more when we all are moving toward the same objective. Second, you have to be sure that people know and understand that their future is tied in with the success of the Company.

Those are the two directions that I see us moving in -- producing a more aligned corporation through better communication and better work processes, and creating an environment that lets people identify personally with the success of the corporation.

Shell has outstanding people. Our hiring practices over the years have allowed us to select the cream of the various professions and skills. We have self-motivating people. We must give them the means and opportunies to act on their own initiative. Employees will be strongly motivated and will identify with the Company, if we do what's right by them in terms of ensuring that they can continue to develop their professional and technical skills

SN: How do you see the employee/Company relationship changing?

PC: The events of the past two years have certainly altered many of the beliefs that form the basis of the relationship between employees and the Company. In the past many employees believed that as long as we did our job and performed in a generally satisfactory manner, we could feel that our job was secure.

SN: How has this changed?

PC: We are all painfully aware that efforts to reform the Company's cost structure led to decisions that resulted in some very good employees leaving the Shell payroll. Changes in strategy, driven by external conditions, have also resulted in discontinuing some activities with consequent losses of jobs. People now recognize that the old beliefs must be modified, but they are not yet sure of what they can expect in the future. The old style relationship was rather paternalistic. The corporation basically said to the employee: do what we tell you to do, be good, and we will provide for you. The new relationship is much more of an adult relationship. Both parties enter into association with the full expectation of mutual benefit, but recognizing that circumstances change and the relationship must be assessed from time to time.

With this new relationship and without the old belief of lifetime employment, the Company takes on different obligations. The Company now has the responsibility to help employees develop their skill levels to a point where they could, if necessary, go to another place of employment with some assurance of finding a place in the market. In effect, employees will take more responsibility for their own financial security. That's going to mean that more time and more resources will have to be devoted to development.

SN: Can you be more specific about the new relationship? What behaviors are going to be rewarded and encouraged?

PC:     Running your affairs like a business, achieving the highest level of professionalism, and being a constructive force for change. These are the new criteria that apply to anyone who wants to be successful at every level of the Corporation, starting with me. Let's look at these one at a time.

First, run your affairs like a business: define your products, identify your customers, understand your competitors, develop new products, and keep improving. All of those things are business practices we have to apply whether we're an accountant, researcher, operator, or whatever.

Second, achieve the highest level of professionalism: Each of us has a responsibility to ensure that our education is never-ending. Acquiring new and improved skills which apply to the business is a major part of that. The Company likewise has a responsibility to see that this sort of broad educational opportunity is available. I like to think that the investment we make in the education of our people is one of our highest profitability items. Above and beyond the individual progress that would result, our whole concept of how the corporation operates could be improved. If we could reach the point where its not just the individual but the entire organization that learns, then we've really got something.

Third: Be a constructive force for change. I recognize that change is difficult -- often painful. Most of us are uncomfortable with substantial or rapid change. However, continuous change is the new reality. The future belongs to those who adjust, anticipate, and adapt -- to those who can be agents for effective and constructive change.

SN: What do you feel are the biggest impediments to change?

PC: One of the impediments stems from the fact that Shell was so successful for so many years. Our employees developed great pride in the organization's abilities and standing within the industry. This sense of pride and accomplishments confirmed in our people a strong belief that the way they did things was "the right way."  Now, despite a period of poor financial results, a lot of those beliefs remain. People want to cling to the methods and practices that stood them in good stead for so many years. This is something deeply ingrained and not given up easily, even when the evidence is clear that it is no longer business as usual, that things are never going back to where they were "after we get through this little period of adjustment."  In fact, things are never going to be the same. Resistance to that reality probably is the biggest impediment to productive change that I see.

SN: How do you overcome that resistance?

PC: You don't bring about change by passing a proclamation or writing a letter. Change occurs when people understand the need, participate meaningfully in making it happen, and experience the positive consequences, or rewards, for changing.

People also have to believe that they are getting a fair shake in all this. The systems that we have in place for individual development, evaluation, compensation, and recognition were all developed in and attuned to a different time. We now need to devise new systems that better respond to the needs of employees and better support the changing demands being placed on each of us. I think Shell people will respond very positively to improvement in all these areas.

SN: Do your views on education extend to management?

PC: That is a top priority. When you're going through a period of profound change as we are today, it is common to have some people miss the underlying basis for the change. If we're going to make the corporation operate very differently than it did 10 years ago, we have to be sure the leadership has the skills required today. We have to understand what the new corporation, new rule, and game plan, are all about. That means we are going to have to put a lot more time into getting people like me and the other leadership of the corporation to a higher level of performance as well -- it's not just other employees, we have to start here.

SN: What are your specific plans to accomplish this?

PC:      The top leadership of the corporation will be sharing in an on-going educational experience in the months ahead. We have recently put in place an organization called the Leadership Council, of which I am chairman, and all of the officers of the corporation are members. It is the purpose of the group to look at how we run the corporation, what management practices, what processes and decision making methods, what sorts of policies in general we need to have in place to make the corporation as effective and efficient as we want it to be -- and we have begun that process. The Leadership Council won't deal with day to day operating and investment decisions. We will be making use of internal and external resources to help improve our understanding, our skills, and our ability to lead the rest of the organization. The Leadership Council is only one of six councils of this kind which will focus on the particular elements of corporate activity or policy. The others -- and they are all, by the way, chaired by different officers of the company -- will include a Finance Council, a Planning Council, a Human Resources Council, plus a Council on Health, Safety and the Environment as well as a Technology Council. Each of these six councils will bring a high level focus to the Company's initiatives, efforts, and processes.

SN: Can you tell us what kinds of things you hope to explore in the Leadership Council process?

PC: The first part of the process will be an attempt to define where we want to take the Company -- to develop what some people like to call a Company vision. Probably more importantly, we will try to find the right kind of process to define that vision. That is not going to be an easy thing to do. If a vision statement is to have value in terms of producing alignment in the corporation, then it has to be the product of a process in which a large segment of the organization takes part. It has to produce a product that the organization identifies with; if not, then it's simply somebody else's slogan and will not have the desired effect. That is going to be the first arena we look at in the Leadership Council.

Another thing we will have to be doing for the next several years is to change how we look at the conduct of our business. We will put greater emphasis on the underlying business process, and far less emphasis on the various functional boundaries that were built up between organizations in the past. Our organizations have historically been highly functionalized, sometimes with very high walls between them. In fact the underlying business process is something that cuts across boundaries.

SN: How important will communication be in all these changes?

PC: Good communication is vital when you are going through the constant change that we have had for the last several years -- and which I believe is going to be our future. Failure to communicate produces a lack of alignment and in a period of change, unaligned people are uncertain. Uncertain people don't act quickly and aggressively. So, for us to get the results we want, it's absolutely necessary to keep people fully informed about where the Company is going and what our strategies are for getting us there.  This is much more important than instructions or explanations just cascading down from management. Communication has to be a two-way street. I expect every level of management -- starting with me -- to devote considerably more time to communicating with our people. Not to them, with them. That means explaining to people face-to-face what we are trying to do so that they can make their own contribution. It also means hearing back from them what we may be doing wrong or not doing enough of, to allow them to achieve success. One thing we will look at in both the Leadership and Human Resources Councils is what methodologies we have to institute to ensure that takes place. Just saying we want to communicate more is not enough.

Personally, I intend to devote a considerable amount of time to talking with employees and hearing what's on their minds. I will also try to keep them up to date on where we are trying to go and what sort of success we're having.

SN: Any final thoughts?

PC: Shell is a strong company, with a distinguished past and a promising future. I am confident we will successfully meet the challenge before us.
